modified and added admission Webhook (#5019)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/building-operators/golang/webhook.md

#### 1. Validating admission webhook

Validating webhooks can be used to perform validations that go beyond the capabilities of OpenAPI schema validation, 
such as ensuring a field is immutable after creation or higher level permissions checks based on the user that is making 
the request to the API server. It can reject the request, but it cannot modify the object that they are receiving in the request.

#### 2. Mutating admission webhook

Mutating webhooks are most frequently used for defaulting, by adding default values for unset fields in the resource on creation. 
They can modify objects by creating a patch that will be sent back in the admission response.

For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/). 
You can also refer to the [Kubebuilder webhook walkthrough](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html), which is similar in content to this guide. 

> Kubebuilder also has a guide that walks through implementing webhooks for their example `CronJob` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Modified.

```sh
Writing kustomize manifests for you to edit...
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go
```

The `--defaulting` flag will scaffold the resources required for a mutating webhook, and the `--programmatic-validation` flag will scaffold the resources required for a validating webhook. 
In this case we have scaffolded both.

After running the `create webhook` command the file structure would be:

```sh
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
├── PROJECT
├── api
│   └── v1alpha1
│       ├── memcached_webhook.go
│       ├── webhook_suite_test.go
├── config
│   ├── certmanager
│   │   ├── certificate.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│   ├── default
│   │   ├── manager_webhook_patch.yaml
│   │   └── webhookcainjection_patch.yaml
│   └── webhook
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│       └── service.yaml
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go
```

The scaffolded file `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` has method signatures which need to be implemented for the validation webhook.

Following this, there are a few steps which need to be done in your operator project to enable webhhoks. This will involve:

> 1. Implementing the required methods for Validating or Mutating webhook in <kind>_webhook.go. An example of such implementation is provided [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Implementing the required methods for Validating or Mutating webhook in `<kind>_webhook.go`. An example of such implementation is provided [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html).
```

Author: Modified.

---
title: Admission Webhooks
linkTitle: Webhook
weight: 30
description: An in-depth walkthough of admission webhooks.
---

## Create a validating or mutating Admission Webhook 

Admission webhooks are HTTP callbacks that receive admission requests and do something with them. It is registered with Kubernetes, and
will be called by Kubernetes to validate or mutate a resource before being stored. There are two types of admission webhooks.

#### 1. Validating admission webhook

Validating webhooks can be used to perform validations that go beyond the capabilities of OpenAPI schema validation, 
such as ensuring a field is immutable after creation or higher level permissions checks based on the user that is making 
the request to the API server. It can reject the request, but it cannot modify the object that they are receiving in the request.

#### 2. Mutating admission webhook

Mutating webhooks are most frequently used for defaulting, by adding default values for unset fields in the resource on creation. 
They can modify objects by creating a patch that will be sent back in the admission response.

> For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) on the topic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/). 
```

Author: Updated.

You can also refer to the [Kubebuilder webhook walkthrough](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html), which is similar in content to this guide. 
Kubebuilder also has a guide that walks through implementing webhooks for their example `CronJob` resource.

### Create Validation Webhook

As an example, let's start by creating a validation webhook.

> 

Reviewer: As an example, let's walk through the scaffolding of a validation webhook for the sample memcached operator.

Author: Updated.

```sh
$ operator-sdk create webhook --group cache --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --defaulting --programmatic-validation
```

After, `create webhook` command, the following message will appear on the terminal. It scaffolds out `api/<version>/<kind>_webhook.go` file. In this example, it would be `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go`.

```sh
Writing kustomize manifests for you to edit...
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go
```

The `--defaulting` flag will scaffold the resources required for a mutating webhook, and the `--programmatic-validation` flag will scaffold the resources required for a validating webhook. 

> In this case we scaffolded both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case we have scaffolded both.
```

Author: updated.

After running the `create webhook` command the file structure would be:

```sh
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
├── PROJECT
├── api
│   └── v1alpha1
│       ├── memcached_webhook.go
│       ├── webhook_suite_test.go
├── config
│   ├── certmanager
│   │   ├── certificate.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│   ├── default
│   │   ├── manager_webhook_patch.yaml
│   │   └── webhookcainjection_patch.yaml
│   └── webhook
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│       └── service.yaml
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go
```

The scaffolded file `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` has method signatures which need to be implemented for the validation webhook.

Following this, there are a few steps which need to be done in your operator project to enable webhhoks. This will involve:

1. Implementing the required methods for Validating or Mutating webhook in <kind>_webhook.go. An example of such implementation is provided [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html).

> 2. Uncommenting sections in config/default/kustomization.yaml to enable webhook and cert-manager configuration through kustomize. Cert-manager (or any third party solution) can be used to provision certificates for webhook server. This is explained in detail here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Uncommenting sections in `config/default/kustomization.yaml` to enable webhook and cert-manager configuration through kustomize. Cert-manager (or any third party solution) can be used to provision certificates for webhook server. This is explained in detail [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running-webhook.html#deploy-webhooks).
```

Author: Modified.

### Generate webhook manifests and enable webhook deployment 

> Once your webhooks are implemented, all that’s left is to create the WebhookConfiguration manifests required to register your webhooks with Kubernetes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your webhooks are implemented, all that’s left is to create the `WebhookConfiguration` manifests required to register your webhooks with Kubernetes:
```

Author: Modified.

```sh
$ make manifests
```

You will need to enable cert-manager and webhook deployment in order to deploy these webhooks properly. 
To do so, edit the `config/default/kustomize.yaml` and uncomment the sections marked by `[WEBHOOK]` and `[CERTMANAGER]` comments. 
More detail on this step can be found in the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running-webhook.html).

> ### Update main.go so that running locally works 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
This section is not needed either. There is nothing to do in `main.go` the scaffolding will itself register the webhook in `main.go`.

Author: Modified.

Refer upstream [Kubebuilder doc](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/main-revisited.html?highlight=enable_webhooks#you-said-something-about-main) for more details.

## Run your operator and webhooks 

There are two ways to test your operator project with webhooks.

#### Run locally

> Technically, the webhooks can be run locally, but for it to work you need to generate certificates for the webhook server and store them at /tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/tls.{crt,key}. For more details about running webhook locally, refer [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running.html#running-webhooks-locally).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, the webhooks can be run locally, but for it to work you need to generate certificates for the webhook server and store them at `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/tls.{crt,key}`. For more details about running webhook locally, refer [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running.html#running-webhooks-locally).
```

Author: Modified.

#### Run as a Deployment inside the cluster

Adding webhooks does not alter deploying your operator. For instructions on deploying your operator into a cluster, refer to the [tutorial](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial/#2-run-as-a-deployment-inside-the-cluster).

> ## Exercise your webhook

Reviewer: This entire section is not needed either. We have not explained that the validation implementation here is on number of memcached pods. We have directed users upstream for implementation example. Hence having this example would be out of the blue for users. This can be removed.

Author: Yes, agree. Removed it completely.

such as ensuring a field is immutable after creation or higher level permissions checks based on the user that is making 
the request to the API server. It can reject the request, but it cannot modify the object that they are receiving in the request.

#### 2. Mutating admission webhook

Mutating webhooks are most frequently used for defaulting, by adding default values for unset fields in the resource on creation. 
They can modify objects by creating a patch that will be sent back in the admission response.

For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) on the topic. 
You can also refer to the [Kubebuilder webhook walkthrough](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html), which is similar in content to this guide. 
Kubebuilder also has a guide that walks through implementing webhooks for their example `CronJob` resource.

### Create Validation Webhook

As an example, let's start by creating a validation webhook.

> First, create an operator project and the necessary apis using `init` and `create` command of `operator-sdk`. Refer tutorial [here](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial/). To add a webhook to the Operator SDK project, we need to scaffold out the webhooks with the following command.

Author: Sure, I removed above line which explains about `memcached-operator`.

```sh
Writing kustomize manifests for you to edit...
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go
```

The `--defaulting` flag will scaffold the resources required for a mutating webhook, and the `--programmatic-validation` flag will scaffold the resources required for a validating webhook. 
In this case we scaffolded both.

After running the `create webhook` command the file structure would be:

```sh
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
├── PROJECT
├── api
│   └── v1alpha1
│       ├── memcached_webhook.go
│       ├── webhook_suite_test.go
├── config
│   ├── certmanager
│   │   ├── certificate.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│   ├── default
│   │   ├── manager_webhook_patch.yaml
│   │   └── webhookcainjection_patch.yaml
│   └── webhook
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│       └── service.yaml
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── main.go
```

The scaffolded file `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` has method signatures which need to be implemented for the validation webhook.

> 

Reviewer 2: +1, I think @varshaprasad96 's suggestions look great to me:
a good segue to kb doc for a detailed example and then steer back to the SDK doc for run Operator/webhook.

Thank you all for moving this forward!

> 

Author: Added according to above suggestion.

---
title: Admission Webhooks
linkTitle: Webhook
weight: 30
description: An in-depth walkthough of admission webhooks.
---

## Create a validating or mutating Admission Webhook 

Admission webhooks are HTTP callbacks that receive admission requests and do something with them. It is registered with Kubernetes, and
will be called by Kubernetes to validate or mutate a resource before being stored. There are two types of admission webhooks.

#### 1. Validating admission webhook

Validating webhooks can be used to perform validations that go beyond the capabilities of OpenAPI schema validation, 
such as ensuring a field is immutable after creation or higher level permissions checks based on the user that is making 

> the request to the API server. It can reject the request, but the cannot modify the object that they are receiving in the request.

Author: Modified.

#### 2. Mutating admission webhook

Mutating webhooks are most frequently used for defaulting, by adding default values for unset fields in the resource on creation. 
They can modify objects by creating a patch that will be sent back in the admission response.

For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) on the topic. 
You can also refer to the [Kubebuilder webhook walkthrough](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html), which is similar in content to this guide. 
Kubebuilder also has a guide that walks through implementing webhooks for their example `CronJob` resource.

> As an example, let's start by creating a validation webhook.

Author: Modified. Agree.

> First, create an operator project and the necessary apis using `init` and `create` command of `operator-sdk`. To add a webhook to the Operator SDK project, we need to scaffold out the webhooks with the following command.

Author: Yes, Updated.

│   ├── manager
│   │   ├── controller_manager_config.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── manager.yaml
│   ├── manifests
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   ├── prometheus
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── monitor.yaml
│   ├── rbac
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_client_clusterrole.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_service.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── memcached_editor_role.yaml
│   │   ├── memcached_viewer_role.yaml
│   │   ├── role_binding.yaml
│   │   └── service_account.yaml
│   ├── samples
│   │   ├── cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   ├── scorecard
│   │   ├── bases
│   │   │   └── config.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── patches
│   │       ├── basic.config.yaml
│   │       └── olm.config.yaml
│   └── webhook
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│       └── service.yaml
├── controllers
│   ├── memcached_controller.go
│   └── suite_test.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── hack
│   └── boilerplate.go.txt
└── main.go

> 19 directories, 53 files

Author: Modified and removed unnecessary files.

the `Default` function (note that this is already handled by the CRD defaulting and is technically completely superfluous):

```sh
// Default implements webhook.Defaulter so a webhook will be registered for the type
func (r *Memcached) Default() {
	log.Info("default", "name", r.Name)

	if r.Spec.Size == 0 {
		r.Spec.Size = 3
	}
}
```

For validation, we can enforce that the size of the cluster follows a rule that is difficult or impossible 
to describe with OpenAPI, for example, that the size of the cluster always remain an odd number.

In order to perform this validation, we can simply add the `validateOdd` function shown below to  perform the check.

```sh
func validateOdd(n int32) error {
	if n%2 == 0 {
		return errors.New("Cluster size must be an odd number")
	}
	return nil
}
```

At the end, let's call this method from `ValidateCreate` and `ValidateUpdate` function as shown below.

```sh
func (r *Memcached) ValidateCreate() error {
	log.Info("validate create", "name", r.Name)
	return validateOdd(r.Spec.Size)
}

func (r *Memcached) ValidateUpdate(old runtime.Object) error {
	log.Info("validate update", "name", r.Name)
	return validateOdd(r.Spec.Size)
}
```

> This function gets called whenever an object deletion happens.

Reviewer 3: This line is weird, because it mentions "This" but it's unclear what it is referring to. Is it the methods above it or below it. Maybe something more like this:
```suggestion
The function below gets called whenever an object deletion happens.
```

Reviewer 3: But if we are telling users why the function below gets called, we should also mention something similar about the `ValidateCreate` and `ValidateUpdate`.

Author: Modified.

```sh
func (r *Memcached) ValidateDelete() error {
	log.Info("validate delete", "name", r.Name)

	// TODO(user): fill in your validation logic upon object deletion.
	return nil
}
```

### Generate webhook manifests and enable webhook deployment 

Once your webhooks are implemented, all that’s left is to create the WebhookConfiguration manifests required to register your webhooks with Kubernetes:

```sh
$ make manifests
```

You will need to enable cert-manager and webhook deployment in order to deploy these webhooks properly. 
To do so, edit the `config/default/kustomize.yaml` and uncomment the sections marked by `[WEBHOOK]` and `[CERTMANAGER]` comments. 

> More detail on this step can be found in the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running-webhook.html).

Reviewer 3: So what do we do after this? This feels incomplete. So i run `make manifests` I edit `kustomize.yaml` then what?

Author: Hereafter, we diverted user to the upstream doc as upstream doc has everything explained about updating **main.go** and next steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not needed. Its covered in the second point above.

### Update main.go so that running locally works 

> Refer upstream [Kubebuilder doc](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/main-revisited.html?highlight=enable_webhooks#you-said-something-about-main) for more details.

Reviewer 3: Feels like we should have a little more before sending users off to kubebuilder. Like a summary of what they will have to do to main.go.

Author: Upstream docs has explanation about the **main.go** Upstream doc link explains what they has to change in **main.go**

Author: Updated doc properly.

## Run your operator and webhooks 

#### Run locally

> Technically, The webhooks can be run locally, but for it to work you need to generate certificates for the webhook server and store them at `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/tls.{crt,key}`. Generally it’s easier to just disable them locally and test the webhooks when running in a cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Technically, the webhooks can be run locally, but for it to work you need to generate certificates for the webhook server and store them at `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/tls.{crt,key}`. Generally it’s easier to just disable them locally and test the webhooks when running in a cluster.
```

Author: Modified.

If your certificates are properly configured, you should be able to start your operator by running:

```sh
$ make run ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=true
```

For more details about running webhook locally, refer [here](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running.html#running-webhooks-locally).

#### Run as a Deployment inside the cluster

> For instructions on deploying your operator into a cluster, refer to the [tutorial](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial/#2-run-as-a-deployment-inside-the-cluster) instructions. Adding webhooks does not alter this step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adding webhooks does not alter deploying your operator. For instructions on deploying your operator into a cluster, refer to the [tutorial](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial/#2-run-as-a-deployment-inside-the-cluster) instructions.
```

> ## Create a Memcached CR to exercise your webhook

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Exercise your webhook
```

Author: Modified.

First, follow the instructions for creating your Memcached CR in the [tutorial](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial).

Once you have completed this step, you should have a Memcached CR with a size of 3 and a Memcached deployment with 3 replicas in your cluster.

To ensure that you are in the correct state, run the following commands and verify that the output roughly matches:

```
$ kubectl get memcached/memcached-sample -o yaml
apiVersion: cache.example.com/v1alpha1
kind: Memcached
metadata:
  clusterName: ""
  creationTimestamp: 2018-03-31T22:51:08Z
  generation: 0
  name: memcached-sample
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "245453"
  selfLink: /apis/cache.example.com/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/memcacheds/memcached-sample
  uid: 0026cc97-3536-11e8-bd83-0800274106a1
spec:
  size: 3
status:
  nodes:
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-7dqdr
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-g5k7v
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-m7vn7
```

```
$ kubectl get deployment
NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
memcached-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           8m

> memcached-sample                        5/5     5            5           3m

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
memcached-sample                        3/3     3            3           3m
```

Author: Modified.

```

#### Update the size

Update `config/samples/cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml` to change the `spec.size` field in the Memcached CR from `3` to `5`:

```sh
$ kubectl patch memcached memcached-sample -p '{"spec":{"size": 5}}' --type=merge
```

Confirm that the operator changes the deployment size:

```
$ kubectl get deployment
NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
memcached-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           10m
memcached-sample                        5/5     5            5           3m
```

#### Update the size to an even number

> Update `config/samples/cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml` to change the `spec.size` field in the Memcached CR from `3` to `4`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update `config/samples/cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml` to change the `spec.size` field in the Memcached CR from `5` to `4`:
```

Author: Modified.

---
title: Admission Webhooks
linkTitle: Webhook
weight: 30
description: An in-depth walkthough of admission webhooks.
---

## Create a validating or mutating Admission Webhook 

Admission webhooks are HTTP callbacks that receive admission requests and do something with them. It is registered with Kubernetes, and
will be called by Kubernetes to validate or mutate a resource before being stored. There are two types of admission webhooks.

> #### 1. Validation admission webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 1. Validating admission webhook
```

Author: Modified.

such as ensuring a field is immutable after creation or higher level permissions checks based on the user that is making 
the request to the API server. It can reject the request, but the cannot modify the object that they are receiving in the request.

#### 2. Mutating admission webhook

Mutating webhooks are most frequently used for defaulting, by adding default values for unset fields in the resource on creation. 
They can modify objects by creating a patch that will be sent back in the admission response.

For more background on Admission webhooks, refer to the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/admission-webhook.html) or the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) on the topic. 
You can also refer to the [Kubebuilder webhook walkthrough](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/webhook-implementation.html), which is similar in content to this guide. 
Kubebuilder also has a guide that walks through implementing webhooks for their example `CronJob` resource.

> 

Author: Modified.

> First, creat an operator using `init` and `create` command of `operator-sdk`. To add a webhook to your Operator SDK project, first you must scaffold out the webhooks with the following command.

Author: Modified.

```sh
$ operator-sdk create webhook --group cache --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --defaulting --programmatic-validation
```

> After, `create webhook` command below message will appear on the terminal. It scaffolds out `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` file.

Author: Modified.

```sh
Writing kustomize manifests for you to edit...
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go
```

The `--defaulting` flag will scaffold the resources required for a mutating webhook, and the `--programmatic-validation` flag will scaffold the resources required for a validating webhook. 
In this case we scaffolded both.

> After running the `create webhook` command the file structure will change to match the one shown as below.

Author: Modified.

```sh
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
├── PROJECT
├── api
│   └── v1alpha1
│       ├── groupversion_info.go
│       ├── memcached_types.go
│       ├── memcached_webhook.go
│       ├── webhook_suite_test.go
│       └── zz_generated.deepcopy.go

> ├── bin

Reviewer: we need not show `bin/`

Author: removed bin.

│   │   ├── controller_manager_config.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── manager.yaml
│   ├── manifests
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   ├── prometheus
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── monitor.yaml
│   ├── rbac
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_client_clusterrole.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── auth_proxy_service.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role.yaml
│   │   ├── leader_election_role_binding.yaml
│   │   ├── memcached_editor_role.yaml
│   │   ├── memcached_viewer_role.yaml
│   │   ├── role_binding.yaml
│   │   └── service_account.yaml
│   ├── samples
│   │   ├── cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml
│   │   └── kustomization.yaml
│   ├── scorecard
│   │   ├── bases
│   │   │   └── config.yaml
│   │   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   │   └── patches
│   │       ├── basic.config.yaml
│   │       └── olm.config.yaml
│   └── webhook
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── kustomizeconfig.yaml
│       └── service.yaml
├── controllers
│   ├── memcached_controller.go
│   └── suite_test.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── hack
│   └── boilerplate.go.txt
└── main.go

19 directories, 53 files
```

> The scaffoled file `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` has `ValidateCreate`, `ValidateUpdate`, and `ValidateDelete` functions, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scaffolded file `api/v1alpha1/memcached_webhook.go` has method signatures which need to be implemented for the validation webhook. 
```

Author: Modified.

> which allows you to perform different validations based on the operation being performed. The mutating webhook implementation belongs in the `Default` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Modified.

> The memcached operator we are building in this example is too simple to require defaulting or additional validations, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example memcached operator explained in the tutorial is too simple to require defaulting or additional validations, 
```
Can you also add the link to tutorial here.

Author: Modified.

but as an example, we can reinforce that the default value for `spec.size` should be `3`, by adding the following logic to 
the `Default` function (note that this is already handled by the CRD defaulting and is technically completely superfluous):

```sh
// Default implements webhook.Defaulter so a webhook will be registered for the type
func (r *Memcached) Default() {
	memcachedlog.Info("default", "name", r.Name)

	if r.Spec.Size == 0 {
		r.Spec.Size = 3
	}
}
```

For validation, we can enforce that the size of the cluster follows a rule that is difficult or impossible 
to describe with OpenAPI, for example, that the size of the cluster always remain an odd number.

> In order to perform this validation, we can simply add below `validateOdd` function that will perform this check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to perform this validation, we can simply add the `validateOdd` function shown below to  perform the check.
```

Author: Modified.

```sh
func validateOdd(n int32) error {
	if n%2 == 0 {
		return errors.New("Cluster size must be an odd number")
	}
	return nil
}
```

> At the end, call this method from `ValidateCreate` and `ValidateUpdate` function as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end, let's call this method from `ValidateCreate` and `ValidateUpdate` function as shown below.
```

Author: Modified.

```sh

> // ValidateCreate implements webhook.Validator so a webhook will be registered for the type

Reviewer: this seems incomplete. `for the type?`

Author: This message is from the scaffolded file. Removed that comment from the doc.

func (r *Memcached) ValidateCreate() error {

> 	memcachedlog.Info("validate create", "name", r.Name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
log.Info("validate create", "name", r.Name)
```
lets have `log.Info` for now as we have not defined `memcachedlog` anywhere.

Author: Modified.

	return validateOdd(r.Spec.Size)
}

// ValidateUpdate implements webhook.Validator so a webhook will be registered for the type
func (r *Memcached) ValidateUpdate(old runtime.Object) error {

> 	memcachedlog.Info("validate update", "name", r.Name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
log.Info("validate update", "name", r.Name)
```

Author: Modified all memcachedlog.Info to log.Info

	return validateOdd(r.Spec.Size)
}
```

> This function gets called whenever there is an object deletion happens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function gets called whenever an object deletion happens.
```

Author: Modified.

func (r *Memcached) ValidateDelete() error {
	memcachedlog.Info("validate delete", "name", r.Name)

	// TODO(user): fill in your validation logic upon object deletion.
	return nil
}
```

### Generate webhook manifests and enable webhook deployment 

Once your webhooks are implemented, all that’s left is to create the WebhookConfiguration manifests required to register your webhooks with Kubernetes:

```sh
$ make manifests
```

You will need to enable cert-manager and webhook deployment in order to deploy these webhooks properly. 
To do so, edit the `config/default/kustomize.yaml` and uncomment the sections marked by `[WEBHOOK]` and `[CERTMANAGER]` comments. 
More detail on this step can be found in the [Kubebuilder documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running-webhook.html).

### Update main.go so that running locally works 

To ensure that operator running locally continues working, ensure that there is a check that prevents the webhooks from being started when the `ENABLE_WEBHOOKS` flag is set to `false`. To do so, edit `main.go`, and add the following check around the call to `SetupWebhookWithManager` if it’s not already present:

```sh

> if os.Getenv("ENABLE_WEBHOOKS") != "false" {

Reviewer: I'd say lets direct users to refer to the upstream documentation for running webhooks locally. Its already explained here (https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/main-revisited.html?highlight=enable_webhooks#you-said-something-about-main). This seems to be like the same repetition.

Author: Modified.

	if err = (&cachev1alpha1.Memcached{}).SetupWebhookWithManager(mgr); err != nil {
		setupLog.Error(err, "unable to create webhook", "webhook", "Memcached")
		os.Exit(1)
	}
}
```

## Run your operator and webhooks 

#### Run locally

> Technically, The webhooks can be run locally, but for it to work you need to generate certificates for the webhook server and store them at `/tmp/k8s-webhook-server/serving-certs/tls.{crt,key}`. Generally it’s easier to just disable them locally and test the webhooks when running in a cluster.

Reviewer: Can you also add a line to refer here (https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/running.html#running-webhooks-locally) for more details on running webhook locally.

Author: Added diversion.

Author: Modified at the end.

apiVersion: cache.example.com/v1alpha1
kind: Memcached
metadata:
  clusterName: ""
  creationTimestamp: 2018-03-31T22:51:08Z
  generation: 0
  name: memcached-sample
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "245453"
  selfLink: /apis/cache.example.com/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/memcacheds/memcached-sample
  uid: 0026cc97-3536-11e8-bd83-0800274106a1
spec:
  size: 3
status:
  nodes:
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-7dqdr
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-g5k7v
  - memcached-sample-6fd7c98d8-m7vn7
```

```
$ kubectl get deployment
NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
memcached-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           8m
memcached-sample   
```

#### Update the size

Update `config/samples/cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml` to change the `spec.size` field in the Memcached CR from `3` to `5`:

```sh
$ kubectl patch memcached memcached-sample -p '{"spec":{"size": 5}}' --type=merge
```

Confirm that the operator changes the deployment size:

```
$ kubectl get deployment
NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
memcached-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           10m

> memcached-sample   

Reviewer 2: Looks like the deployment size in the output is missing?

Author: Modified.

```

#### Update the size to an even number

Update `config/samples/cache_v1alpha1_memcached.yaml` to change the `spec.size` field in the Memcached CR from `3` to `4`:

```sh
$ kubectl patch memcached memcached-sample -p '{"spec":{"size": 4}}' --type=merge
```

The request should fail, and you should see a response like this:

```sh
Error from server (Cluster size must be an odd number): admission webhook "vmemcached.kb.io" denied the request: Cluster size must be an odd number
```

This means that your update was rejected by your webhook. If you inspect the cluster state, you will see that your resources are unchanged:

```
$ kubectl get deployment
NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
memcached-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           10m

> memcached-sample

Reviewer 2: Looks like the deployment size in the output is missing?

Author: Modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
memcached-sample                        5/5     5            5           3m
```
